Add docs for EDP (#3231)
quiltdata/quilt: docs/advanced-features/event-driven-packaging.md

> <!-- markdownlint-disable -->

Reviewer: I think we should not disable linter.

Author: Uff. If we don't I get a multitude of linting errors with one of the tests, especially on text line wraps for list items. Reapplying disable comment.

# Event-Driven Packaging (EDP)

> EDP is in private preview. Please contact us for details.

## Overview

Data tend to be created in logical batches by machines, people, and
pipelines. Detecting these logical events from Amazon S3 events alone is
complex and requires extensive custom logic.

Quilt's *Event-Driven Packaging* service (EDP) smartly groups one

> or more Amazon S3 object events into a single event

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or more Amazon S3 object events into a single batch-level event
```

in [AWS EventBridge](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/) so that
you can easily trigger logical events like package creation that
depend on batches rather than on individual files.

> Quilt EDP works well with services like [AWS Storage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quilt EDP works with services like [AWS Storage
```

> Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/storagegateway/) and [AWS Data

Reviewer 2: Just say works with any Amazon service that syncs data to S3 and any services that can be targeted from AWS EB (Lambda, batch, etc.)

Sync](https://aws.amazon.com/datasync/) that write objects to Amazon S3.

> Any AWS service or action that generates S3 object events may trigger the EDP service.

## Requirements

1. A pre-existing VPC that includes a [NAT
Gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-gateway.html)
or the following [VPC
endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/concepts.html#concepts-vpc-endpoints):
  - Amazon S3
  ([gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/gateway-endpoints.html)
  or
  [interface](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/create-interface-endpoint.html))
  - EventBridge (interface)
2. [Enable EventBridge S3
Events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enable-event-notifications-eventbridge.html)
for all S3 buckets to be monitored by EDP

![](../imgs/edp-event-bridge-s3-properties.png)

## Deployment

> To use EDP in your Quilt instance, you will use a standalone

Reviewer 2: EDP’s not tied to a Quilt instance, that’sa networking detail for elsewhere. Just say “is a standalone CloudFormation template”…

> CloudFormation template to configure when, and how, events get

Reviewer 2: EFP has no “when” controls per se

Reviewer 2: Just say “to configure under which conditions”

### Parameters

The following parameters need to be defined in the CloudFormation
template during deployment:

- `VPC`: Same as the existing Quilt instance.
- `SecurityGroup`: Same as the existing Quilt instance.
- `Subnets`: Same two subnets as the existing Quilt instance.
- `BucketName`: Name of the Amazon S3 bucket to monitor.
- `BucketIgnorePrefixes`: List of bucket path segments to ignore
- `BucketPrefixDepth`: The number of `/`-separated *common* path segments
at the beginning of an S3 object key. Default value is `2`.
- `BucketThresholdDuration`: Trigger a notification when this number
of seconds has elapsed since the last object event in the S3 bucket 
occurred. Default value is `300` seconds.
- `BucketThresholdEventCount`: Trigger a notification when this
number of files have been created (since the prior trigger)
- `DBUser`: Username for EDP RDS instance
- `DBPassword`: Password for EDP RDS instance
- `EventBusName`: Name of custom EventBridge event bus that recieves events

![](../imgs/edp-cloudformation-parameters.png)

## How EDP works

1. EDP monitors S3 object events for _s3://source-bucket_
2. After a fixed number of events (`BucketThresholdEventCount`) or

> a maximum duration (`BucketThresholdDuration`) EDP creates a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a maximum duration within a common prefix (`BucketThresholdDuration`) EDP creates a
```
suggest adding "within a common prefix" to reduce ambiguity (per earlier conversation)

package in _s3://target-bucket_ (the _target_ bucket may or may not be
the same as the _source_ bucket).
3. Each EDP event contains sufficient information for the
recipient to make Quilt data packages from the event:
  - S3 Bucket name
  - Common prefix
  - Number of files
  - Timestamp of event
4. EDP ignores changes to ignored prefixes (`BucketIgnorePrefixes` parameter)
in the source S3 bucket (e.g. `raw/*`)
5. EDP publishes events to an AWS EventBridge bus and can forward
events to external EventBridge buses
6. Users subscribe the Amazon SNS topic created to recieve notifications

> ## Example EDP events

Reviewer 2: This section and the docs as a whole are missing the all-important example of a rule (in code, not a screenshot) to catch EDP events and forward them to a target. That’s how people will actually use EDP and should be the most salient part of this document. Installation is mostly one-time whereas EB rules and targets are the common place where EDP gets used.

Also you need to explain limits, such as monitors one bucket at present …

Reviewer 2: Also need to mention stack has an SNS topic (useful for debugging and seeing how events are structured)

Reviewer 2: The key thing about the short code snippet for the rule is not to redo the Amazon docs on rules but to show how to match EDP events. Something like “[com.quilt data.edp]” is almost there

> Currently, EDP generates two different events:

Reviewer 2: These events aren’t equal and shouldn’t be presented as such. Present main event designed to “signal that files are ready to be packaged” then mention delayed event as “by the way there’s this other event for these special cases.

state to that of the S3 bucket.

> This is used internally. Most users won't explicitly use this event.

```json
{
    "version": "0",
    "id": "13f2c7fd-1ebd-44c8-406c-fad7204a6b26",
    "detail-type": "package-ready",
    "source": "com.quiltdata.edp",
    "account":"XXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "time": "2022-12-12T14:28:27Z",
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "resources": [
      "arn:aws:s3:::bucket-name"
    ],
    "detail": {
      "version": "0.1",
      "package-name": "package/name"
    }
}
```

## Example use case

1. Lab scientist drops files into _s3://RAW/raw/_
2. Lambda function copies filess to _s3://RAW/other/prefix/_
3. EDP listens to _s3://RAW/other/*_ and generates a `package-objects-ready`
event
4. Second lambda fuction responds to `package-objects-ready` event and
pushes Quilt data package to _s3://PROCESSED_ bucket
5. EDP listens for "package created" (from step above), then emits
a `package_ready` event which is received in a foreign account bus
6. SNS subscription generates email to scientists
7. Lab and Computational scientists recieve email notification
8. Computational scientist opens files backed by _s3://PROCESSED_
bucket

## Features

> - EDP is tolerant of container restarts (e.g. events are not consumed

Reviewer 2: This is confusing because it’s an implementation detail about internal containers and has nothing to do with customer containers

Reviewer 2: Recommend eliminating

or are requeued so that package revisions are not lost)
- EDP is tolerant of delayed (or partitioned) S3 object events (e.g.

> Storage Gateway stops syncing due to network parition)

Reviewer 2: Not accurate. If the SG goes offline EDP can’t do anything

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
# Event-Driven Packaging (EDP)

> > EDP is currently in private preview. Please contact Quilt
> directly to discuss pricing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> EDP is in private preview. Please contact us for details.
```

Author: Applied

## Overview

> Data can be added to your Amazon S3 buckets manually by internal
> team members and/or external collaborators, or automatically via
> instrumentation. No matter how it arrives into your buckets, it 
> is helpful, and sometimes critical, to be notified of this data 
> migration.

Reviewer 2: Migration is not the right word. And the problem is really:
```suggestion
Data tend to be created in logical batches by machines, people, and pipelines.
Detecting these logical events from S3 events alone is complex and requires extensive custom logic.
```

Author: Applied

> Quilt's *Event-Driven Packaging* service (EDP) monitors S3 object events
> for a given Amazon S3 bucket prefix and groups those S3 object
> events into logical batches via custom-defined time, space and
> prefix heuristics. A `files_ready` event is generated on the receiving
> [EventBridge](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/) in order to
> notify users and/or other AWS services that this logical batch of
> S3 objects are ready to be turned into Quilt packages. *This makes
> it easy to ingest data into Quilt data packages from AWS data
> migration services* such as [Storage
> Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/storagegateway/) and [Data
> Sync](https://aws.amazon.com/datasync/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quilt's *Event-Driven Packaging* service (EDP) smartly groups one or more S3 object events
into a single `files_ready` event in [AWS EventBridge](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/)
so that you can easily trigger logical events like package creation that depend on batches rather
than on individual files.

Quilt EDP works well with services like [AWS Storage
Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/storagegateway/) and [AWS Data
Sync](https://aws.amazon.com/datasync/) that write objects to S3.
```

Author: Applied

> Any AWS service or action that generates S3 object events may trigger the EDP service.

## Requirements

1. A pre-existing VPC that includes a [NAT
Gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-gateway.html)
or the following [VPC
endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/concepts.html#concepts-vpc-endpoints):
  - Amazon S3
  ([gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/gateway-endpoints.html)
  or
  [interface](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/create-interface-endpoint.html))
  - EventBridge (interface)
2. [Enable EventBridge S3
Events](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/enable-event-notifications-eventbridge.html)
for all S3 buckets to be monitored by EDP

![](../imgs/edp-event-bridge-s3-properties.png)

## Deployment

> To use EDP in your Quilt instance, you will need an additional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use EDP in your Quilt instance, you will us a standalone
```

Reviewer 3: "USE a standalone"

Author: Applied - thanks for typo catch Ernie!

CloudFormation template to configure when, and how, events get
generated.

### Parameters

The following parameters need to be defined in the CloudFormation
template during deployment:

- `VPC`: Same as the existing Quilt instance.
- `SecurityGroup`: Same as the existing Quilt instance.
- `Subnets`: Same two subnets as the existing Quilt instance.
- `BucketName`: Name of the Amazon S3 bucket to monitor. Must be

> read accessible to EDP.

Reviewer 2: Does this mean anything? EDP is not a principal. Need to be more specific.

Author: - For a customer AWS admin they need to know that the `SecurityGroup` and `Subnets` are the same as the existing Quilt instance.
- I'll remove the `Must be read accessible....` sentence. Agree that doesn't make sense and makes it sound like EDP has a role or is a principal

- `BucketIgnorePrefixes`: List of bucket path segments to ignore

> - `BucketPrefixDepth`: The number of `/`-separated path segments

Reviewer 3: Does this mean: the number of *common* path segments of the S3 object key to use when grouping files together into a prospective package?

Author: Yes. Added _common_ to the list item

at the beginning of an S3 object key. Default value is `2`.
- `BucketThresholdDuration`: Trigger a notification when this number
of seconds has elapsed since the last object event in the S3 bucket 
occurred. Default value is `300` seconds.
- `BucketThresholdEventCount`: Trigger a notification when this
number of files have been created (since the prior trigger)
- `DBUser`: Username for EDP RDS instance
- `DBPassword`: Password for EDP RDS instance
- `EventBusName`: Name of custom EventBridge event bus that recieves events

![](../imgs/edp-cloudformation-parameters.png)

## How EDP works

1. EDP monitors S3 object events for _s3://source-bucket_

> 2. After a fixed number of events (`BucketThresholdEventCount`) or

Reviewer 3: Does this mean the event ALWAYS fires if the threshold is exceeded, even if from multiple disjoint files with no common prefix?

Author: I believe so, yes, but would like confirmation from @sir-sigurd

Reviewer 2: No. The threshold is per common prefix.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a maximum duration within a common prefix (`BucketThresholdDuration`) EDP creates a
```
suggest adding "within a common prefix" to reduce ambiguity

a maximum duration (`BucketThresholdDuration`) EDP creates a
package in _s3://target-bucket_ (the _target_ bucket may or may not be
the same as the _source_ bucket).
3. Each EDP `files_ready` event contains sufficient information for the
recipient to make Quilt data packages from the event:
  - S3 Bucket name
  - Common prefix
  - Number of files
  - Timestamp of event
4. EDP ignores changes to ignored prefixes (`BucketIgnorePrefixes` parameter)
in the source S3 bucket (e.g. `raw/*`)
5. EDP publishes events to an AWS EventBridge bus and can forward
events to external EventBridge buses
6. Users subscribe the Amazon SNS topic created to recieve notifications

## Example EDP events

> Currently, EDP generates two different `files_ready` events:

Reviewer 2: This section and the above are super confusing and wrong. We say `package-data-ready` here then the example shows `"package-objects-ready"` and above say `files_ready`. Need to consolidate terms.

Author: Hmmm. We say:
 91 Currently, EDP generates two different `files_ready` events:
 92 - `package-data-ready`
 93 - `package-ready`

These are the two types of event. It's explicit.

Author: @sir-sigurd We call the `detail type``package-objects-ready` but is it actually `package-data-ready`? There's no other mention of `package-objects-ready` in the docs.

Reviewer 2: files_ready is a made-up "type" AFAICT. Those are simply EDP events unless we have an actual "files_ready" type.

Reviewer: `package-data-ready` was renamed to `package-objects-ready` at some point. `files_ready` is a made-up "type" and I think we should not use it to avoid confusion.

- `package-data-ready`
- `package-ready`

### `package-data-ready`

This event signals that a batch of files is ready to be packaged.
For example with `p.set_dir(".",
f"s3://{e['detail']['bucket']}/{e['detail']['prefix']}")`, followed
by `p.push()`.

<!--pytest.mark.skip-->
```json
{
    "version":"0",
    "id":"4a26374e-72f2-d78f-071b-dac895697670",
    "detail-type":"package-objects-ready",
    "source":"com.quiltdata.edp",
    "account":"XXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "time":"2022-12-08T20:01:34Z",
    "region":"us-east-1",
    "resources":[
        "arn:aws:s3:::source-bucket"
    ],
    "detail":{
        "version":"0.1",
        "bucket":"source-bucket",
        "prefix":"instrument-name/experiment-id/"
    }
}
```

### `package-ready`

This event signals that a Quilt package is available in an Amazon
S3 bucket and that a user-specified interval has elapsed to ensure
that time-driven processes like File Gateway have synchronized their

> state to that of the S3 bucket.

Reviewer 3: How exactly does this differ from the 'package created' event in Step 5 below?

Reviewer 2: @drernie it's super janky but `package-ready` signals that a specified interval has passed so that e.g. StorageGateway RefreshCache must have been called. @robnewman please indicate the same and note that most users won't use this event.

Author: Added:
> This is used internally. Most users won't explicitly use this event.

Reviewer 2: That's not correct either. This is not used internally. It's for users who want to know that a fixed time (we should note what that is) has passed and the files are now warm in e.g. Storage Gateway, as I explained above.

pipelines. Detecting these logical events from Amazon S3 events alone is
complex and requires extensive custom logic.

Quilt's *Event-Driven Packaging* service (EDP) smartly groups one
or more Amazon S3 object events into a single batch-level event
in [AWS EventBridge](https://aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/) so that
you can easily trigger logical events like package creation that
depend on batches rather than on individual files.

Quilt EDP works with any Amazon service that syncs data to Amazon
S3 and any services that can be targeted from AWS EventBridge (such
as AWS Lambda or AWS Batch).

> Any AWS service or action that generates S3 object events may trigger the EDP service.

## Requirements

1. A pre-existing VPC that includes a [NAT
Gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-gateway.html)
or the following [VPC
endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/concepts.html#concepts-vpc-endpoints):
  - Amazon S3
  ([gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/gateway-endpoints.html)
  or
  [interface](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/create-interface-endpoint.html))

>   - EventBridge (interface)

Reviewer 2: This is missing a link and it's interface endpoint, not "interface"

Author: Copied from Sergey's [original docs](https://github.com/quiltdata/edp#readme)

Author: Link added

for additional manual or automatic processing.

EDP, upon completion and if configured to do so, may warm its
contents to a File Gateway where it has read permissions to ensure
that new EDP-created Quilt packages are available to Gateway clients
like Windows Workspaces.

> Users can optionally subscribe directly to the EDP SNS topic.
This is useful for both debugging and viewing how events are structured.

## Example: Lambda function to automatically create data packages

1. An instrument automatically uploads a folder containing files
from a single experiment into
_s3://instrument-bucket/instrument-name/experiment-id/_.
1. EDP listens for events in
_s3://instrument-bucket/instrument-name/experiment-id/*_.  After the
specified duration or event count, a `package-objects-ready` event
is generated and sent to EventBridge.
1. A custom SNS topic is created for monitoring data package creation
that Lab and Computational scientists subscribe to (`SNS_TOPIC_ARN`).
1. A custom lambda fuction triggered by the `package-objects-ready`
event processes the experiment files and generates a data package.
Additional processing includes (but is not limited to):

>     - Decorating the data package with helpful additional files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Enhance the package with documentation, charts, and metadata, such as the following:
```

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
# Event-Driven Packaging (EDP)

> > EDP is in private preview. You can ask your Quilt account manager
> about enabling it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> EDP is in private preview. Ask your Quilt account manager for details.
```

## Overview

Data tend to be created in logical batches by machines, people, and
pipelines. Detecting these logical events from Amazon S3 events alone is

> complex and requires extensive custom logic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
complex and requires extensive logic.
```

Quilt's *Event-Driven Packaging* (EDP) service intelligently groups one
or more Amazon S3 object events into a single batch-level event.
You can easily (and if desired, **automatically**) trigger logical
events like data package creation that depend on batches rather
than on individual files.

> Any AWS service or action that generates S3 object events may trigger the EDP service.

## Requirements

> 1. A pre-existing VPC that includes a [NAT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. A pre-existing VPC that either includes a [NAT
```

Gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-nat-gateway.html)
or the following [VPC
endpoints](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/concepts.html#concepts-vpc-endpoints):
  - Amazon S3

>   ([gateway](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/gateway-endpoints.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  ([gateway endpoint](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/gateway-endpoints.html)
```

  or

>   [interface](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/create-interface-endpoint.html)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  [interface endpoint](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/create-interface-endpoint.html)).
```

| `BucketPrefixDepth` | The number of `/`-separated *common* path segments at the beginning of an S3 object key. Default value is `2`. |
| `BucketThresholdDuration` | Trigger a notification when this number of seconds has elapsed since the last object event in the S3 bucket occurred. Default value is `300` seconds. |
| `BucketThresholdEventCount` | Trigger a notification when this number of files have been created (since the prior trigger). Default value is `20`. |
| `DBUser` | Username for EDP RDS instance. |
| `DBPassword` | Password for EDP RDS instance. |
| `EventBusName` | Name of custom EventBridge event bus that receives events. |

## How EDP works

1. EDP monitors S3 object events for _s3://bucket-name_

2. After a fixed number of object events (`BucketThresholdEventCount`) or
a maximum duration within a common prefix (`BucketThresholdDuration`),
EDP creates a `package-objects-ready` event that signals there is
sufficient information to make Quilt data packages from a batch of
files:
    - S3 bucket name
    - Common prefix
    - Number of files
    - Timestamp of event

>     The event payload is a JSON file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The event payload is JSON:
```

    <!--pytest.mark.skip-->
    ```python
    import datetime
    import functools
    import os
    import pathlib
    import tempfile
    import boto3
    import quilt3 as quilt3
    from aws_lambda_powertools import Logger

    logger = Logger()
    s3 = boto3.client("s3")
    sns = boto3.client("sns")

    # Configuration environment variables defined for Lambda function
    WORKFLOW_NAME = os.environ.get("WORKFLOW_NAME") or ...
    QUARANTINE_BUCKET_NAME = os.environ["QUARANTINE_BUCKET_NAME"]
    SNS_TOPIC_ARN = os.environ["SNS_TOPIC_ARN"]
    MAX_SNS_SUBJECT_LEN = 99
    QUILT_URL = os.environ["QUILT_URL"]

    # Empty quilt_summarize.json object
    QUILT_SUMMARIZE_JSON_STR = "[]"

    # README.md default Markdown
    QUILT_README_STR = f"""#Quilt package auto-generated by EDP\n\n
    Created on {datetime.date.today()} by an 
    automated Lambda agent for the {WORKFLOW_NAME} workflow."""

    # File system files for Quilt to ignore
    QUILT_IGNORE_STR = """.DS_*
    Icon
    ._*
    .TemporaryItems
    .Trashes
    .VolumeIcon.icns
    """

    # Define helpful additional data package files
    beautify_files = {

>         "quilt_summarize.json": QUILT_SUMMARIZE_JSON_STR,

Reviewer 2: What is the point of an empty quilt_summarize? Eliminate unless you make use of it. README.md is not a good candidate as that automatically displays.

Author: A `quilt_summarize.json` file is considered a "standard file" for all data packages. We cannot dynamically create content for the quilt_summarize unless we know what is going to be in the S3 bucket. I don't think that means that an example shouldn't include it because we still get questions from customers asking what it is and how it works. I can create a dummy file for the purposes of this example script

        "README.md": QUILT_README_STR,
        ".quiltignore": QUILT_IGNORE_STR,
    }

    @logger.inject_lambda_context
    def lambda_handler(event, context):

        # EDP event data
        bucket = event["detail"]["bucket"]
        prefix = event["detail"]["prefix"]
    
        # Add every file in the prefix folder to the new data package
        pkg = quilt3.Package().set_dir(".", f"s3://{bucket}/{prefix}")
    
        # Decorate the data package with example required metadata (as defined by WORKFLOW_NAME)
        meta = {

>             "Author": "EDP",

Reviewer 2: Where did these values come from? "Made up" is fine.

Author: They are made up

            "ComputerName": "Genome Lab - 1234",
            "Date": datetime.date.today().strftime("%Y-%m-%d"),
            "DiseaseArea": "COVID-19",
            "Drug Substance": "RNA",
            "ELN_ID": "827392-0102",

>             "FolderName": "A34-VB9877",

Reviewer 2: Eliminate.

            pkg_name = prefix.strip("/")
        
            # Define callable Quilt push()
            push = functools.partial(
                pkg.push,
                pkg_name,
                registry=f"s3://{bucket}",
                force=True,
                message="Created by EDP",
                workflow=WORKFLOW_NAME
            )
        
            # Validate against the Quilt workflow schema
            try:
                push(dedupe=True)
            except quilt3.workflows.WorkflowValidationError as e:
                logger.warning("Workflow check failed")
            
                # Write out error to README.md file in quarantine bucket
                file_path = tmpdir_path / "README.md"
                file_path.write_text(str(e))
                pkg.set("README.md", file_path)
            
                # Push package to quarantine bucket
                push(registry=f"s3://{QUARANTINE_BUCKET_NAME}", workflow=...)
            
                # Error SNS notification content
                subject = f"Failed validation for package {pkg_name}"
                if len(subject) > MAX_SNS_SUBJECT_LEN:

>                     subject = subject[: MAX_SNS_SUBJECT_LEN - 1] + "…"

Reviewer 2: It would be simpler to limit the subject to "Failed to create package" and rely on the message for everything else (eliminates at least on variable and several lines of code).

                message = (
                    f"Validation failed for workflow {WORKFLOW_NAME} while pushing "
                    f"package with name {pkg_name} to {bucket}. It was pushed to "
                    f"{QUARANTINE_BUCKET_NAME} instead.\n"
                    f"{QUILT_URL}/b/{QUARANTINE_BUCKET_NAME}/packages/{pkg_name}\n\n"
                    f"Error message is:\n{e}\n"
                )
                # Publish notification to SNS topic
                sns.publish(
                    TopicArn=SNS_TOPIC_ARN,
                    Message=message,
                    Subject=subject,
                )
    ```
1. If a metadata validation error occurs (and they are subscribed
to the `SNS_TOPIC_ARN`) the Lab and Computational scientists receive
an email notification of the error and can check the package created in the

> quarantine bucket for problems.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit unclear. I think the point is that SNS can email users. Primarily "subscribed" is confusing and does not necessarily imply email. So I would focus on the SNS events and then add a note that these can be trafficked over email.

Author: This is an actual use case and not unclear in the context of the example and the steps above:

```
1. A custom SNS topic is created for monitoring data package creation
that Lab and Computational scientists subscribe to (`SNS_TOPIC_ARN`).
```

I've made it more clear.

1. Computational scientist opens the new data package for additional
analysis, modeling, and versioning.

## Debugging

> EDP creates a [CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EDP includes a [CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/)
```

EDP. If EDP is working correctly there should be one or more
events received (depending on the time range selected).
- **Per-bucket metrics**:
  - **S3 EventBridge rule**: The number of events published to
  EventBridge from the specified Amazon S3 bucket. If there is no
  data, there are several possibilities:
    - **Invocations**: If this value is zero, the S3 bucket isn't
    correctly configured (`Send notifications to Amazon EventBridge
    for all events in this bucket` is not turned `On`).
    - **TriggeredRules**: If this value is zero, there was a problem
    with the automated EventBridge rule creation process during
    deployment. In general, you want the number of invocations to
    approximately equal the number of triggered rules.
    - **Failed Invocations**: This value should be zero. If greater
    than zero, there is an EDP configuration issue.
  - **Store in DB lambda**: If EDP is configured correctly, there
  should be zero errors and a 100% success rate.
  - **Emit event lambda**: If EDP is configured correctly, there
  should be zero errors and a 100% success rate.

![](../imgs/edp-cloudwatch-dashboard.png)

## Limitations

> - Currently, only one Amazon S3 bucket can be monitored at a time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Each EDP stack monitors one S3 bucket.
```
